Project #2: Visualize Me, Captain!
Lesson 18.1

Your Task
2

Tell a Story with Data
3
AdobeStock_159567645

4
What?

Project Requirements
5

Project Description
6
Your task is to tell a story through data visualizations.
Focus on providing users an interactive means to explore data themselves. 
Prepare a 10-minute presentation that lays out your theme, coding approach, data munging techniques, and final visualization.
You may choose a project of any theme, but we encourage you to think broadly.
You will have ample time in class to work with your group, but expect to put in hours outside of class as well. 

Specific Requirements
Your visualization must include a Python Flask–powered RESTful API, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, and at least one database (SQL, MongoDB, SQLite, etc.). 
Your project should fall into one of the below four tracks: 
A custom “creative” D3.js project (i.e., a nonstandard graph or chart)
A combination of web scraping and Leaflet or Plotly
A dashboard page with multiple charts that update from the same data
A “thick” server that performs multiple manipulations on data in a database prior to visualization (must be approved)
Your project should include at least one JS library that we did not cover.
Your project must be powered by a data set with at least 100 records.
Your project must include some level of user-driven interaction (e.g., menus, dropdowns, textboxes).
Your final visualization should ideally include at least three views. 
7

Schedule
8

Weekly Schedule
9
Day 1 (Today):Between now and Saturday, you will need to start brainstorming topics with your group and researching potential data sets. Your focus should center around:
Selecting a topic 	
Finding a data set	
Finding inspiration	
“Sketching” your ideal visuals
Creating a 1-page proposal

Day 2: You will need to create a 1-page proposal that includes:
A brief articulation of your chosen topic and rationale
A link to your data set(s) and a screenshot of the metadata if it exists.	
3 or 4 screenshots of relevant, “inspiring” visualizations that frame your creative fodder	
A sketch of the final design 	
A link to the primary GitHub repository you’ll be housing your work in

Day 3:
Project Work



Final Thoughts
10
Project week is a great time to tie up loose ends, both with your group and on your own.
If there are topics you’d like to review, shoot me and the TAs a message. We’re happy to do (recorded) extra review sessions for small groups during these weeks.
Good luck and have fun! 

Questions?
11
